Most AI mistakes begin before the prompt: we choose the wrong relationship with the system.
We ask when we need a working session, keep chatting when execution is ready, or delegate work whose destination is still unclear.
The useful question is not, “How autonomous can this AI become?
Ask instead: “What human attention does this task need, and how much execution can the agent safely take?
Those are separate decisions.
Microsoft's 2026 Work Trend Index describes four modes: asking, collaboration, exploration, and delegation.
They are not a maturity ladder.
Each fits different task conditions.
We will build a practical four-mode map: when to use each mode, what to hand over, what to keep, and when to switch.
You can use it before your next prompt.
Keep one principle in view: execution can move to an agent, but outcome responsibility stays human.
A good workflow makes that boundary clearer.